#Physics 
Classical mechanics is a physical [[theory]] (within [[theoretical physics]]) describing the motion of [[macroscopic]] objects, from projectiles to parts of [[machine]]ry and [[astronomical]] objects, such as [[spacecraft]], [[planet]]s, [[star]]s, and galaxies [[galaxy]]. For objects governed by classical mechanics, if the present state is known, it is possible to predict how it will move in the future ([[determinism]]), and how it has moved in the past ([[reversibility]]).

The earliest formulation of classical mechanics is often referred to as Newtonian mechanics. It consists of the physical concepts based on foundational works of Sir Isaac [[Newton]], and the [[math]]ematical methods invented by Gottfried Wilhelm [[Leibniz]], Joseph-Louis [[Lagrange]], Leonhard [[Euler]], and other contemporaries in the 17th century to describe the motion of bodies under the influence of forces. Later, more [[abstract]] methods were developed, leading to the reformulations of classical mechanics known as Lagrangian mechanics and [[Hamilton]]ian mechanics. These advances, made predominantly in the 18th and 19th centuries, extend substantially beyond earlier works, particularly through their use of analytical mechanics. They are, with some modification, also used in all areas of modern physics.

Classical mechanics provides accurate results when studying large objects that are not extremely [[mass]]ive and [[speed]]s not approaching the [[speed of light]]. When the objects being examined have about the size of an [[atom]] diameter, it becomes necessary to introduce the other major sub-field of mechanics: [[quantum mechanics]]. To describe velocities that are not small compared to the speed of light, [[special relativity]] is needed. In cases where objects become extremely massive, [[general relativity]] becomes applicable. However, a number of modern sources do include relativistic mechanics in classical physics, which in their view represents classical mechanics in its most developed and accurate form.