#Astronomy 
Earth is the third [[planet]] from the [[Sun]] and the only place known in the [[universe]] where [[life]] has originated and found habitability. While Earth may not contain the largest volumes of [[water]] in the [[Solar System]], only Earth sustains [[liquid]] surface water, extending over 70.8% of the planet with its [[ocean]], making it an ocean world. The [[polar]] regions currently retain most of all other water with large sheets of [[ice]] covering ocean and land, dwarfing Earth's [[groundwater]], [[lake]]s, [[river]]s and [[atmospheric]] water. The other 29.2% of the Earth's surface is [[land]], consisting of [[continent]]s and [[island]]s, and is widely covered by [[vegetation]]. Below the planet's surface lies the [[crust]], consisting of several slowly moving [[tectonic plate]]s, which interact to produce [[mountain]] ranges, [[volcano]]es, and [[earthquake]]s. Inside the Earth's crust is a liquid [[outer core]] that generates the [[magnetosphere]], deflecting most of the destructive [[solar wind]]s and [[cosmic radiation]]. Earth has a dynamic atmosphere, which sustains Earth's surface conditions and protects it from most [[meteoroids]] and [[UV-light]] at entry. It has a composition of primarily [[nitrogen]] and [[oxygen]]. Water [[vapor]] is widely present in the atmosphere, forming [[cloud]]s that cover most of the planet. The water vapor acts as a [[greenhouse gas]] and, together with other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, particularly c[[arbon dioxide (CO2)]], creates the conditions for both liquid surface water and water vapor to persist via the capturing of [[energy]] from the Sun's [[light]]. This process maintains the current average surface [[temperature]] of 14.76 °C, at which water is liquid under atmospheric pressure. Differences in the amount of captured energy between [[geographic]] regions (as with the equatorial region receiving more sunlight than the polar regions) drive atmospheric and ocean [[current]]s, producing a global [[climate system]] with different [[climate region]]s, and a range of [[weather]] phenomena such as [[precipitation]], allowing components such as nitrogen to [[cycle]].

Earth is rounded into an [[ellipsoid]] with a circumference of about 40,000 km. It is the densest planet in the Solar System. Of the four rocky planets, it is the largest and most massive. Earth is about eight light-minutes away from the Sun and orbits it, taking a year (about 365.25 days) to complete one revolution. The Earth rotates around its own axis in slightly less than a day (in about 23 hours and 56 minutes). The Earth's axis of rotation is tilted with respect to the perpendicular to its orbital plane around the Sun, producing seasons. Earth is orbited by one permanent natural satellite, the Moon, which orbits Earth at 384,400 km (1.28 light seconds) and is roughly a quarter as wide as Earth. Through tidal locking, the Moon always faces the Earth with the same side, which causes tides, stabilizes Earth's axis, and gradually slows its rotation.

Earth, like most other bodies in the Solar System, formed 4.5 billion years ago from gas in the early Solar System. During the first billion years of Earth's history, the ocean formed and then life developed within it. Life spread globally and has been altering Earth's atmosphere and surface, leading to the Great Oxidation Event two billion years ago. Humans emerged 300,000 years ago, and have reached a population of 8 billion today. Humans depend on Earth's biosphere and natural resources for their survival, but have increasingly impacted the planet's environment. Humanity's current impact on Earth's climate and biosphere is unsustainable, threatening the livelihood of humans and many other forms of life, and causing widespread extinctions.[27]