#Philosophy 
Definitions of knowledge try to determine the essential features of knowledge. Closely related terms are conception of knowledge, [[theory]] of knowledge, and [[analysis]] of knowledge. Some general features of knowledge are widely accepted among philosophers, for example, that it constitutes a [[cognitive]] success or an epistemic contact with reality and that propositional knowledge involves true belief. Most definitions of knowledge in analytic philosophy focus on propositional knowledge or knowledge-that, as in knowing that Dave is at home, in contrast to knowledge-how (know-how) expressing practical competence. However, despite the intense study of knowledge in [[epistemolog]]y, the disagreements about its precise nature are still both numerous and deep. Some of those disagreements arise from the fact that different theorists have different goals in mind: some try to provide a practically useful definition by delineating its most [[salient]] feature or features, while others aim at a theoretically precise definition of its necessary and sufficient conditions. Further disputes are caused by methodological differences: some theorists start from [[abstract]] and general [[intuition]]s or [[hypothes]]es, others from [[concrete]] and specific cases, and still others from linguistic usage. Additional disagreements arise concerning the standards of knowledge: whether knowledge is something rare that demands very high standards, like infallibility, or whether it is something common that requires only the possession of some evidence.

One definition that many philosophers consider to be standard, and that has been discussed since ancient [[Greek]] [[philosophy]], is justified true belief (JTB). This implies that knowledge is a [[mental]] state and that it is not possible to know something [[false]]. There is widespread agreement among [[analytic]] philosophers that knowledge is a form of true [[belief]]. The idea that justification is an additionally required component is due to the intuition that true beliefs based on [[superstition]], [[lucky]] guesses, or [[erroneous]] reasoning do not constitute knowledge. In this regard, knowledge is more than just being right about something. The source of most disagreements regarding the nature of knowledge concerns what more is needed. According to the standard philosophical definition, it is justification. The original account understands justification internalistically as another mental state of the person, like a perceptual experience, a memory, or a second belief. This additional mental state supports the known proposition and constitutes a reason or evidence for it. However, some modern versions of the standard philosophical definition use an externalistic conception of justification instead. Many such views affirm that a belief is justified if it was produced in the right way, for example, by a reliable [[cognitive]] process.