#Engineering 
Microelectronics is a subfield of electronics. As the name suggests, [[microelectronic]]s relates to the study and manufacture (or [[microfabrication]]) of very small [[electronic]] [[design]]s and [[component]]s. Usually, but not always, this means micrometre-scale or smaller. These devices are typically made from [[semiconductor]] materials. Many components of normal electronic design are available in a microelectronic equivalent. These include [[transistor]]s, [[capacitor]]s, [[inductor]]s, [[resistor]]s, [[diode]]s and (naturally) [[insulator]]s and [[conductor]]s can all be found in microelectronic devices. Unique wiring techniques such as [[wire]] bonding are also often used in microelectronics because of the unusually small size of the components, leads and pads. This technique requires specialized equipment and is expensive.

Digital [[integrated circuit]]s (ICs) consist of billions of transistors, resistors, diodes, and capacitors.[1] Analog circuits commonly contain resistors and [[capacitor]]s as well. Inductors are used in some high frequency [[analog]] [[circuit]]s, but tend to occupy larger chip area due to their lower [[reactance]] at low frequencies. [[Gyrator]]s can replace them in many applications.

As techniques have improved, the scale of microelectronic components has continued to decrease[citation needed]. At smaller scales, the relative impact of intrinsic circuit properties such as interconnections may become more significant. These are called [[parasitic effect]]s, and the goal of the microelectronics design engineer is to find ways to compensate for or to minimize these effects, while delivering smaller, faster, and cheaper devices.

Today, microelectronics design is largely aided by [[Electronic Design Automation]] software.