#Biology 
In biology, the nervous system is the highly complex part of an [[animal]] that coordinates its actions and [[sensory]] [[information]] by transmitting [[signal]]s to and from different parts of its [[body]]. The nervous system detects [[environment]]al changes that impact the body, then works in tandem with the [[endocrine]] system to respond to such events.[1] Nervous [[tissue]] first arose in [[wormlike]] [[organism]]s about 550 to 600 million years ago. In [[vertebrate]]s it consists of two main parts, the central nervous system ([[CNS]]) and the peripheral nervous system ([[PNS]]). The CNS consists of the [[brain]] and [[spinal cord]]. The PNS consists mainly of nerves, which are enclosed bundles of the long fibers or axons, that connect the CNS to every other part of the body. Nerves that transmit signals from the brain are called [[motor nerve]]s or efferent nerves, while those nerves that transmit information from the body to the CNS are called [[sensory nerve]]s or afferent. Spinal nerves are mixed nerves that serve both functions. The PNS is divided into three separate subsystems, the [[somatic]], [[autonomic]], and [[enteric]] nervous systems. Somatic nerves mediate voluntary movement. The autonomic nervous system is further subdivided into the [[sympathetic]] and the [[parasympathetic]] nervous systems. The sympathetic nervous system is activated in cases of emergencies to mobilize [[energy]], while the parasympathetic nervous system is activated when organisms are in a relaxed state. The enteric nervous system functions to control the [[gastrointestinal]] system. Both autonomic and enteric nervous systems function involuntarily. Nerves that exit from the [[cranium]] are called [[cranial nerve]]s while those exiting from the spinal cord are called [[spinal nerve]]s.

At the cellular level, the nervous system is defined by the presence of a special type of [[cell]], called the [[neuron]]. Neurons have special structures that allow them to send signals rapidly and precisely to other cells. They send these signals in the form of [[electrochemical]] [[impulse]]s traveling along thin fibers called [[axon]]s, which can be directly transmitted to neighboring cells through electrical [[synapse]]s or cause [[chemical]]s called [[neurotransmitter]]s to be released at chemical synapses. A cell that receives a synaptic signal from a neuron may be excited, [[inhibit]]ed, or otherwise modulated. The connections between neurons can form [[neural pathway]]s, neural [[circuit]]s, and larger [[network]]s that generate an organism's perception of the world and determine its [[behavior]]. Along with neurons, the nervous system contains other specialized cells called [[glial cell]]s (or simply glia), which provide structural and [[metabolic]] support.

Nervous systems are found in most [[multicellular]] [[animal]]s, but vary greatly in [[complex]]ity.[2] The only multicellular animals that have no nervous system at all are [[sponge]]s, [[placozoan]]s, and [[mesozoan]]s, which have very simple body plans. The nervous systems of the [[radially symmetric]] organisms [[ctenophore]]s ([[comb jell]]ies) and [[cnidarian]]s (which include anemones, hydras, corals and jellyfish) consist of a diffuse nerve net. All other animal species, with the exception of a few types of worm, have a nervous system containing a brain, a [[central cord]] (or two cords running in parallel), and nerves radiating from the brain and central cord. The size of the nervous system ranges from a few hundred cells in the simplest [[worm]]s, to around 300 billion cells in [[African elephant]]s.[3]

The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of [[genetic]] defects, physical damage due to [[trauma]] or [[toxic]]ity, [[infect]]ion, or simply [[senesence]]. The [[medical]] specialty of [[neurology]] studies disorders of the nervous system and looks for interventions that can prevent or treat them. In the peripheral nervous system, the most common problem is the failure of nerve [[conduction]], which can be due to different causes including [[diabetic neuropathy]] and demyelinating disorders such as [[multiple sclerosis]] and [[amyotrophic lateral sclerosis]]. Neuroscience is the field of science that focuses on the study of the nervous system.