#Linguistics 
A writing system is a method of visually representing [[verbal]] [[communication]], based on a [[script]] and a set of rules regulating its use. A writing system can be visually expressed through [[symbol]]s and/or images such as [[Hieroglyph]]s or the Hieroglyphic Writing System.

While both writing and speech are useful in conveying messages, writing differs in also being a reliable form of [[definition]] [[storage]] and [[transfer]].[1] Writing systems require shared understanding between [[writ]]ers and readers of the meaning behind the sets of [[character (ling)]]s that make up a script. Without a mutual understanding of the [[meaning]]s behind both writing and [[read]]ing, a writing system can be rendered useless. Writing is usually recorded onto a durable medium, such as paper or [[electronic]] storage, although non-durable methods may also be used, such as writing on a [[Comput]] [[display]], on a [[blackboard]], in [[sand]], or by skywriting. Reading a text can be accomplished purely in the [[mind]] as an internal process, or expressed [[oral]]ly.

Writing systems can be placed into broad categories such as [[alphabet]]s, [[syllabar]]ies, or [[logograph]]ies, although any particular system may have attributes of more than one category. In the alphabetic category, a standard set of [[letter]]s represent [[speech]] [[sound]]s. In a syllabary, each symbol correlates to a [[syllable]] or mora. In a [[logography]], each character represents a [[semantic]] unit such as a word or [[morpheme]]. Abjads differ from alphabets in that [[vowel]]s are not indicated, and in abugidas or alphasyllabaries each character represents a consonant–vowel pairing.

Alphabets typically use a set of less than 100 symbols to fully express a language, whereas syllabaries can have several hundred, and logographies can have thousands of symbols. Many writing systems also include a special set of symbols known as [[punctuation]] which is used to aid [[interpret]]ation and help capture nuances and variations in the message's meaning that are communicated verbally by cues in [[timing]], [[tone]], [[accent]], [[inflection]] or [[intonation]].

Writing systems were preceded by [[proto-writing]], which used [[pictogram]]s, [[ideogram]]s and other [[mnemonic]] symbols. Proto-writing lacked the ability to capture and express a full range of [[thought]]s and [[idea]]s. The invention of writing systems, which dates back to the beginning of the [[Bronze Age]] in the late [[Neolithic]] Era of the late 4th millennium BC, enabled the accurate durable recording of human history in a manner that was not prone to the same types of error to which oral history is vulnerable. Soon after, writing provided a reliable form of long distance communication. With the advent of publishing, it provided the medium for an early form of [[mass communication]].